So now that we've seen how to create a policy file,
how to edit a policy file, how to apply the policy to our code,
how we can both augment and override policy,
we now need to take a look at how policy is applied to our code.
There's another course in this series which covers class loading in depth,
so I'm not going to go into the details here.
If you see that course,
you'll know that all Java code is loaded by a class loader.
And we also discussed the fact most code is loaded by
something called the URLClassLoader.
Now the URLClassLoader itself derives from something called a
SecureClassLoader. And it's the job of the SecureClassLoader to attach
information to the loaded classes that let security happen, that let
that these permissions take effect.
So the SecureClassLoader tags each loaded class with something
called a CodeSource, and the CodeSource contains,
as it might suggest,
the source that the code was loaded from, so the
location the code was loaded from.
So how is this done?
Well,
the codebase information is saved when we first load a
class, and this isn't done directly.
What happens is there's an object created of type ProtectionDomain, and
it's the job of the ProtectionDomain to map this codebase, location the
code is loaded from, into these policy permissions, and security‑aware code
can retrieve this codebase at any time.
So the SecureClassLoader has a defineClass call which looks
something like this. It takes the name of the class, the byte
array that makes up the class.
But it also takes a ProtectionDomain object. That ProtectionDomain
object holds the CodeSource, and it's the CodeSource that holds
the information about the codebase.
We can retrieve this anywhere in code by getting hold of the current class
or of a class object, calling getProtectionDomain on that object, and then
calling getCodeSource on that ProtectionDomain.
So how is this used?
So, for example,
we might want to use this CodeSource and get all the permissions
associated with this current code location. And we know those
permissions are set using the policy object, so we can use this policy
object to get these permissions from the CodeSource. So we have code
which looks something like this.
So Java has a singleton policy object, and we can get that by calling
policy.getPolicy. If we were in some method somewhere inside a class,
we can call getClass to get hold of the current class object for
our class, and then from that we can call getProtectionDomain. So
this gives us access to the ProtectionDomain object. From that we
can call getCodeSource, and that gives me access to the CodeSource object.
And then after that,
I can pass the CodeSource to the policy.getPermissions call.
And this would give me back a collection of all the
permissions associated with this class.
At this point, we can enumerate those permissions. So let's let's take a look at this code.